# AI Tools
One of the most famous tools today is Chat GPT, which is capable of generating code automatically based on a user request.

When it comes to the quality of this tool for generating UI, I personally would say it is "good" for simple things that do not require too much complexity. It also depends on the technical skill level of the person interacting with the tool, as well as the level of specification they have for generating the request. Although it is possible to generate some basic usability features with these tools, such as accessibility and navigation, human decision-making skills are still necessary to create effective and easy-to-use interfaces.

I have used Chat GPT to generate simple interfaces for Java Swing. It was very helpful because Swing is a library that I have not fully explored to know what components are available. But with the help of Chat GPT, you can give it the context of what you need to implement, and it will give you the code to implement it. As for its limitations, I would say that this tool could only be used to generate base code that would need to be improved for its implementation in the final product. I mention this because if you ask the AI for a "beautiful" interface, I am sure it will give you an acceptable UI for prototypes, but nothing that could be considered a final interface.

Regarding the evolution of the UX role with the development of AI tools, there may be changes, but nothing significant. These tools may serve to streamline the process of analyzing a large number of user experiences and generate "POSSIBLE" solutions in terms of UX, but human intervention will still be necessary for decision-making. In any case, it should be noted that AI tools can never completely replace human knowledge and experience.